Thank you so much for coming again, for participating and making time with your effort and coming
here.
Thank you so much everyone, all of you too, but also those who came today to study. Thank you again
for attending so much.
So again, we go down to the teaching and the teaching is of course "The Greatest Kindness of Asian
Teacher" by the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Buddha Shakyamuni gives Dzogchen teaching, not just on his regular form that what we often see on
Thangas or the Bhutgyas,
but it does form, in the form of the asana, Buddha Samadha Bhutji.
And that status, the Buddha gives the teachings. Where he gives that teachings?
The colon he gave, when he transformed that status, he gave this teaching in Akanishta.
The Akanishta, not within you all in this status.
And so give this, because Dzogchen teaching is the teaching of beyond dualities.
Duality people cannot immediately digest these teachings.
And therefore, he gives this teaching beyond duality beyond that.
Who are the retinues to reveal audience teachings?
All those who are highly realized beings, no other same as realization you like himself, no other
than.
Such as, "Pipe Diana Buddha" or in the teaching or principle, display of the self-western eman
ations that he gives these teachings.
And in that state, he gives these Dzogchen teachings, Dzogchen teachings.
It's continually echoed in the pure land or in the Akanishtas.
And then it came to this wall, when his time was made.
And that is also when the greatest teacher, Buddha Kya Kya Muni, that as well we see Thangas,
that he is entering Mahabharata in the runner, Muni, great sage, Bodhisattvas, and as well as Muni
Muni.
Muni Muni, Akhata, all gathered him, surrounded him.
Among that, one of the known as great Bodhisattva, Kundak.
He rose up from his sitting, "Oh, gracious teacher, you give the causal teachings, but you didn't
expound.
The result, you are the teachings."
And Buddha said, "I gave these teachings, but it will come."
On the right, one time is ready, it will come in this wall.
But I already gave, it will come in this wall.
As he said that, then it was 28 years after the Buddha's Mahabharata in the runner,
and then all these dandaras began to come, one after another coming up.
And those are the five excellent dandaras and so forth.
But particularly Dokki teaching around also same time, around from the areas after.
Then, in the gracious kindness, very emanation of the Buddha,
regular Sattva came in the human form known as Garab Dorji.
And Garab Dorji revealed all Dokki teachings, all both of these teachings to this wall.
So that's how this Dokki teaching came.
Again, to receive generally in the Buddha's teaching,
any received teaching that we are studying, contemplating, meditating,
always in the teaching, say the great masters,
we should have always activated three beautiful qualities.
And those are, as always I said, joy and appreciation.
Joy and appreciation really for renunciation of thought or for reversing,
for point that reverse our mind from the samsara.
That is always we should have that.
And this for renunciation of thought is so important.
Every master, every time, you can activate that.
Because when you activate this for renunciation of thought,
what it does, actually, really, it will make our heart softer,
more gentle, more tender, more conformed, drawn to the ground,
and become more practical, more practical.
And also become more wise, wise so that we can use time so beautifully.
And this is like anchor, but that's what great master Yang Bunkundra said in his teaching.
The four renal sessions, the anchor of the practices.
Anchor was A-N-C-H-O-R, right?
Anchor. Anchor of the practices.
So when you put the boat on the water, I think you always need anchor.
I don't believe so. I don't know exactly what anchor.
Otherwise it will be carried up and down.
But if you have that, it's strong, it's stable, it stays, it becomes more useful.
So therefore, if we have that, this anchor of the four renal sessions,
the joy, the appreciation, that is so...
If that makes our lives more meaningful, practical, simple,
and also not kind of bumping so much with the e-books all the time, up and down.
More great, more gracious, more grateful.
It's just so beautiful. That's what every energy can make.
And I've been talking that the other day, I mean, we can't put a highlight of that point.
And I just saw really again that first one, you all know that four renal sessions,
which is breakfast, women's body, or eight endowments in parliament.
And Samsara has a lot of challenges and difficulties,
and cause and effect are inevitable. Those are the four.
And I told, let me kind of highlight of that four first endowments.
I talked really again, a little bit about that, a little bit, that rest.
I couldn't finish last time kind of that.
But this is, I mean, basically they finish, but most of the kind of...
I mean, you all know it's not something that I'm talking about.
But it is like this eight endowments, because they add freedoms.
Definitely we all have that add freedoms.
And now ten luxuries, that ten luxuries, that is many times, it's lingering us.
Even though we have ten luxuries, all that 18 endowments,
but it is always many times lingering, particularly last three or three of each five endowments.
It's lingering.
If it's beginning lingering, then our 18 endowments, now we don't have 18 endowments.
We have maybe 17 endowments, or 16 endowments.
And then we have maybe 15 endowments.
We have 12 endowments.
Then it's going down endowments.
Our, what do they call this?
Our store market is going down.
So the market is going down.
And who has really become the loser?
Look at them.
One's normal self.
There's no one else, really.
It hurt.
But it really hurt.
We practically, like, we really think.
So therefore, always in the teaching, mention, those masters, always mention,
always reactivate in those 18 endowments.
Every freedom we have, that is, I'm sure we have that.
But these ten luxuries, luxuries in particular, those last few,
always should kind of activate and think of that.
And who have to activate?
We have to activate our individualism.
And other Sangha members help and inspire us or support us that,
but reality, we have to put in action.
And we do that.
Then truly we are really good, great practitioners.
We are really making meaningful of these lives.
Truly we're making meaningful of these lives,
not just only for ourselves, because of both each other we have.
They have then also benefitted with others.
So therefore, these lives, always the three important things, what in the teaching said?
Three important things, always practicing all the time is the first word I said.
You're all in the application with four random sections.
And then, second is two practices.
Two practices, one in general terminology, one in the teaching said.
It's emptiness.
Emptiness that realizes you're trying to always have that as much as you can have.
Emptiness, virtue, that emptiness.
That means what we learn in the heart circles, even we join in that.
Poem is emptiness.
Emptiness is foam, and foam is no other than emptiness.
Emptiness is no other than foam. Poems are no other than emptiness.
Those are four things. This is not just only foam.
That related to foam, and feeling, and perception,
consumption, and consciousness, all have the same status.
So that whole thing is what is called, what is known as.
In the teaching said, that inconceivable emptiness arises,
allows that are completely interdependent coordinate systems.
The interdependent coordinate systems are arising magically from the emptiness.
All through the teaching, every use of all through the teaching arises magically.
There's nothing structured and nothing regulated that is arising simultaneously.
At the same time, what is arising never lost the flavor and the nature of the emptiness.
Therefore, it's magical, magical.
So that realization, if we are trying to always, as much as we remember,
that's really the teaching said.
And the third one is bodhicitta, bodhicitta.
Bodhicitta is an interdependent arising energy,
the interdependent coordination from our nature of the mind.
Again, it magically arises.
There's no substitute in solid existing bodhicittas
that we can hold in tangibles, that we all know.
But arising magically, and when you say arising magically,
as same as others, it never lost the flavor of this organ and nature.
Of the tattoo, or the nature of the mind. Never lost.
That's the way things are always.
Combined with the body of bodhicitta, in the teaching said,
always devotions, devotions.
Devotion is not just we were trying to make someone pleased and happy with that.
But devotion, when we have, we feel richness.
Reach, reach of the dharma, reach of the spiritual,
reach of the teaching, reach of the lineage.
We not become powerages.
And we not just become kind of wondrous, we really begin to settle.
Read the life story of those old great masters, long keepers.
Even he has such a great knowledge, I mean, he's openly named, we all know,
omniscient, but yet his devotions,
determinations to the teacher and to the lineage,
when you have process of practicing, that we can read.
How much?
Because you realize that he becomes known as like the second garab doki.
It's not just for only because he's a glutton,
but because what he revealed, the meaning of life, meaning of the nature.
Then wisdom shines, burst it, burst it from the primordial wisdom,
as interdipidly, in magically interdipidical energy systems.
And understanding every talk he teaches, everything.
What in the teaching he says, the garab doki revealed 64,000 doki dandras.
The long keepers understand everything.
That's how what the great master long keepers.
Read the life story of the long keepers.
And read the life story of the great master, Malaripa.
How much his devotions,
and how much his courage and commitment and determinations,
and humble and simple with contents.
And he becomes one of the greatest rehydration beings in Buddhist history.
This is not just because Malaripa is so epic and so skillful
and so kind of practical things, but because of it, devotions,
and his courage and commitment to the dharma and to the teachings.
Teaching, and he completely has turned the mind into teaching,
said what he did, the vinvasa yamas, with the black magics.
That become the big kind of like cause to reverse,
change his mind with courage and commitment and the determinations.
And then he become such great beings to benefit.
So many beings and sing so many beautiful songs.
Where they are teaching, the essence of teaching,
or Buddha teaching, really so practical to the heart.
His words are to be like, it is just a root of the Buddha teaching.
So simple, so kind of beautiful and also so good.
Point, point, that's how it is.
So therefore, always in the teaching, combine, body, jatavati, devotee.
So these three are one, is that, again, the devouring of foreign conversations,
and then talk it with, talk it with, with it.
The structuralization, the emptiness, as I said, that's it.
And then the body jatai and the devotions.
Truly we have that feeling of kind of keeping up that,
keeping that light on in our heart.
Truly we are in the path.
And so that's what I did in the teaching, said.
So I just thought, reminded that.
And now I just told it really, really.